# DifferenceObjectsClasses

An object in Java is a basic term used in object-oriented programming, while a class is like an object constructor that helps create objects. In more specific terms, an object is like a real world entity like a mouse, pencil, or fan, while a class is a group of those similar objects. Think of classes like blueprints or templates from which objects are created from. One of the major differences regarding the concepts of objects and classes is how there are many ways to create an object in Java such as new keywords, methods, and clones, while there is only one way to define class in java using class keywords. Another major difference regarding the two concepts is that objects allocate memory when it is created, while classes don't. An example on how an object and class is seen in code is that an object is created through a new keyword such as "Bar b1 = new Bar();" and a class is declared only using a class keyword such as "class Bar". Objects are a physical entity while classes are logical entities, so classes represent a blueprint for an object while the objects represent a physical entity that exists in memory. Real life examples of class and object in Java are that classes are humans and fruit, while the objects of those classes are man and woman for the class human, and apple, strawberry, and blueberry for the class fruit. Another real life example of classes and objects in Java are that ice cream and colors are classes, while chocolate, vanilla, and strawberry are objects for the class ice cream, while red, blue and purple are objects for the class colors. I like to imagine objects in Java like the organs of code while classes are the skeletons of code.
